Refactor data fetching API docs (#30615)
vercel/next.js: docs/api-reference/data-fetching/getServerSideProps.md

---
description: Fetch data on each request with `getServerSideProps`. Learn more about this API for data fetching in Next.js.
---

# `getServerSideProps`

<details>
  <summary><b>Version History</b></summary>

| Version   | Changes                                                             |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `v10.0.0` | `locale`, `locales`, `defaultLocale`, and `notFound` options added. |
| `v9.3.0`  | `getServerSideProps` introduced.                                    |

</details>

When exporting an `async` function called `getServerSideProps` (server-side rendering) from a page, Next.js will pre-render this page on each request using the data returned by `getServerSideProps`.

```js
export async function getServerSideProps(context) {
  return {

>     props: {}, // will be passed to the page component as props

Reviewer: Is all of this content copy/paste or did you change parts? Just trying to understand how much to read into it

Author: Copy paste then some copy change and new sections. Its mostly the same content, I've gone through it though

---
description: API reference for `getServerSideProps`. Learn how to fetch data on each request with Next.js.
---

# `getServerSideProps`

<details>
  <summary><b>Version History</b></summary>

| Version   | Changes                                                             |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `v10.0.0` | `locale`, `locales`, `defaultLocale`, and `notFound` options added. |
| `v9.3.0`  | `getServerSideProps` introduced.                                    |

</details>

When exporting an `async` function called `getServerSideProps` (server-side rendering) from a page, Next.js will pre-render this page on each request using the data returned by `getServerSideProps`. This is useful if you want to fetch data that changes often, and have the page update to show the most current data.

```js
export async function getServerSideProps(context) {
  return {

>     props: {}, // will be passed to the page component as props

Reviewer 2: So this is only true when in `_app` you do `<Component {...pageProps}/>`, without destructuring `pageProps` in any way. For example:

```js
function MyApp({ Component, pageProps: { foo , ...pageProps } }) {
  return <Component {...pageProps} />
}
```
`foo` won't be in the page component's `props`. Not sure if that is useful, I just wanted to point it out.

Reviewer 3: I don't think that has to be explicitly explained. Something that should be explained in the _app docs probably.

  }
}
```

> You can import modules in top-level scope for use in `getServerSideProps`. Imports used will **not be bundled for the client-side**. This means you can write **server-side code directly in `getServerSideProps`**, including reading from the filesystem or a database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import modules in top-level scope for use in `getServerSideProps`. Imports used will **not be bundled for the client-side**. This means you can write **server-side code directly in `getServerSideProps`**, including fetching data from your database.
```

- `params`: If this page uses a [dynamic route](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes.md), `params` contains the route parameters. If the page name is `[id].js` , then `params` will look like `{ id: ... }`.
- `req`: [The `HTTP` IncomingMessage object](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_class_http_incomingmessage).
- `res`: [The `HTTP` response object](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_class_http_serverresponse).
- `query`: An object representing the query string.
- `preview`: `preview` is `true` if the page is in the [Preview Mode](/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode.md) and `false` otherwise.
- `previewData`: The [preview](/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode.md) data set by `setPreviewData`.
- `resolvedUrl`: A normalized version of the request `URL` that strips the `_next/data` prefix for client transitions and includes original query values.
- `locale` contains the active locale (if enabled).
- `locales` contains all supported locales (if enabled).
- `defaultLocale` contains the configured default locale (if enabled).

## `getServerSideProps` return values

The `getServerSideProps` function should return an object with the following **optional** properties:

### `props`

> The `props` object is a key-value pair, where each value is forwarded to the page component. It should be a [serializable object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serialization).

Reviewer 2: Probably mention `JSON.stringify` the similar to as in `getInitialProps`, and which common types aren't in this category (`Date` etc.)

> The `props` object is a key value pair, where each value is received by the page component. It should be a [serializable object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serialization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `props` object is a key-value pair, where each value is forwarded to the page component. It should be a [serializable object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serialization).
```

Author: Which is it? key/value, key-value, key,value?? 😅  Everyone keeps changing it 😂  Ill go with your suggestion for now

```jsx
export async function getServerSideProps(context) {
  return {
    props: { message: `Next.js is awesome` }, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

### `notFound`

> The `notFound` boolean allows the page to return a 404 status and page. With `notFound: true` the page will return a 404 even if there was a successfully generated page before. This is meant to support use-cases like user generated content getting removed by its author.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `notFound` boolean allows the page to return a `404` status and [404 Page](/docs/advanced-features/custom-error-page.md#404-page). With `notFound: true`, the page will return a `404` even if there was a successfully generated page before. This is meant to support use-cases like user-generated content getting removed by its author.
```

> The `notFound` boolean allows the page to return a `404` status and [404 Page](/docs/advanced-features/custom-error-page.md#404-page). With `notFound: true`, the page will return a `404` even if there was a successfully generated page before. This is meant to support use-cases like user-generated content getting removed by its author.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `notFound` boolean allows the page to return a `404` status and [404 Page](/docs/advanced-features/custom-error-page.md#404-page). With `notFound: true`, the page will return a `404` even if there was a successfully generated page before. This is meant to support use cases like user-generated content getting removed by its author.
```

```js
export async function getServerSideProps(context) {
  const res = await fetch(`https://.../data`)
  const data = await res.json()

  if (!data) {
    return {
      notFound: true,
    }
  }

  return {
    props: { data }, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

### `redirect`

> The `redirect` object to allows redirecting to internal and external resources. It should match the shape of `{ destination: string, permanent: boolean }`. In some rare cases, you might need to assign a custom status code for older `HTTP` Clients to properly redirect. In these cases, you can use the `statusCode` property instead of the `permanent` property, but not both.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `redirect` object allows redirecting to internal and external resources. It should match the shape of `{ destination: string, permanent: boolean }`. In some rare cases, you might need to assign a custom status code for older `HTTP` Clients to properly redirect. In these cases, you can use the `statusCode` property instead of the `permanent` property, but not both.
```

- `params`: If this page uses a [dynamic route](/docs/routing/dynamic-routes.md), `params` contains the route parameters. If the page name is `[id].js` , then `params` will look like `{ id: ... }`.
- `req`: [The `HTTP` IncomingMessage object](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_class_http_incomingmessage).
- `res`: [The `HTTP` response object](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_class_http_serverresponse).
- `query`: An object representing the query string.
- `preview`: `preview` is `true` if the page is in the [Preview Mode](/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode.md) and `false` otherwise.
- `previewData`: The [preview](/docs/advanced-features/preview-mode.md) data set by `setPreviewData`.
- `resolvedUrl`: A normalized version of the request `URL` that strips the `_next/data` prefix for client transitions and includes original query values.
- `locale` contains the active locale (if enabled).
- `locales` contains all supported locales (if enabled).
- `defaultLocale` contains the configured default locale (if enabled).

## `getServerSideProps` return values

The `getServerSideProps` function should return an object with the following **optional** properties:

### `props`

> The `props` object is a key value pair, where each value is received by the page component. It should be a [serializable object](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serialization)

Reviewer 4: Missing period at the end of this sentence

| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `v10.0.0` | `locale`, `locales`, `defaultLocale`, and `notFound` options added. |
| `v9.3.0`  | `getServerSideProps` introduced.                                    |

</details>

When exporting an `async` function called `getServerSideProps` (server-side rendering) from a page, Next.js will pre-render this page on each request using the data returned by `getServerSideProps`.

```js
export async function getServerSideProps(context) {
  return {
    props: {}, // will be passed to the page component as props
  }
}
```

You can import modules in top-level scope for use in `getServerSideProps`. Imports used will **not be bundled for the client-side**. This means you can write **server-side code directly in `getServerSideProps`**, including reading from the filesystem or a database.

You should not use the [`fetch()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) `API` to call an [API route](/docs/api-routes/introduction.md) in `getServerSideProps`.

Instead, directly import the logic used inside your `API` route. You may need to slightly refactor your code for this approach.

> > **Note:** The `fetch()` `API` _can_ be used to fetch external data, such as from a Content Management System (CMS) or `API`.

Reviewer: IMO by removing the quote here, this lost some of the context of being a footnote rather than a main part of the document. To fix that, we need to likely pull this into a new section with more explanation (this is one of the most common confusion points around this).

You _can_ use fetch but it leads to a poor experience. You are adding an additional network hop, when instead, you can call that logic directly.

Author: Cool, can totally refactor this part. But I'm not sure I 100% understand your second paragraph. If I'm calling a CMS to get data, that I want rendered on the server, then I will use fetch to call the CMS API. This is the part I don't get: "you can call that logic directly"

Reviewer: You'll occasionally see folks put this logic inside an API Route (which also runs on the server) and then call the API Route from gSP or gSSP. This _works_ but it's not recommended, since gSP and gSSP also run on the server. So rather than having an "additional hop" to the API route, you can just use the logic inside your API route directly!

Author: Ahh, gotcha! Thanks for the explanation!
